This definition from AWS website very well explains what data warehouses are.
They are central repository of information analyze and used to make informed decisions.
Data flows into data warehouses from various traditional data sources,
such as transactional systems,
relational DB's, or other resources generally on regular cadence.
Here we can clearly see how data warehouses are used.
They get data from various sources.
There is an ETL Pipeline that feeds data to data warehouse,
and data warehouse powers applications such as reporting,
visualizations and BI or business intelligence.
In data warehouses, data is consolidated at
one place which speeds up reporting and analysis.
Imagine getting data from 10 different DB's,
merging it, massaging it.
Data warehouse saves us from those hazards.
Data is enriched, multiple dimensions are added to data
as data from different sources is blended to provide better and deeper analysis.
This helps in better business intelligence and better decision making.
Imagine C-suite making decisions only after looking at marketing data or operations data.
Data warehouses help in minimizing blind-spots.
Data warehouse also forces on data discipline in
the organization which results in improved data quality.
Since it expects data in a specific format,
groups and organization within an enterprise need to make
sure that their data can be provided to data warehouse with minimal overhead.
Hence, they follow data format guidelines of data warehouses.
Data warehouses could be costly.
All the data sources need to be hooked to ETL Pipelines and this will require,
continuous cleaning, transformation and data integration cycles,
making data warehouse ecosystems expensive.
Processing before data is loaded,
makes data warehouses nonviable for real time use cases.
A marketing campaign cannot be monitored in real time using data warehouse data,
format requirements make it harder to add a new source of data to data warehouses.